date: 03/12/2012
-
title: Carolyn Goldstein
-
content:
Dear Selectmen:

I am writing to ask that you please vote in support of using the Busa Land for
a community farm.  In addition, I ask that you modify your decision to site
housing on this land and take steps to protect the view of the farm so that it
will remain accessible to the greatest number of people--not just the small
handful of families who will be lucky enough to live there.

The Busa Land Use Proposal Committee did a remarkable job in serving our
community and your board by organizing an open, public process that allowed
for constructive engagement and dialogue.  They made a clear
recommendation--one year ago this week!  In so doing, the committee handed you
a wonderful opportunity to champion an effort to preserve our town's
agricultural history while also initiating something unique for the future.  I
am dismayed that your board chose not to endorse its own committee's
recommendations, but instead to drag this decision out.  None of the meetings
you have held have came close to the effectiveness of the operation of BLUPC's
public forums.  Rather, your meetings have allowed countless false statements
to cloud the discussion, causing rancor and bad feeling across our community.

Your failure to listen to your own committee--and the many strong, diverse
voices that have spoken up in favor of a community farm--runs the risk of
seeming arrogant and out of touch with Lexington residents. Thus far you have
set housing as a priority, yet I have attended many meetings and I did not
hear the community crying out for affordable housing.  I heard housing
committees expressing this need, but no one else.  I did not even hear very
many citizen voices in favor of recreational fields on this site.  Most of the
people I know who express a need for sports fields understand that the desired
large field will not fit on this parcel of land and that the town needs to do
a better job maintaining and managing the numerous fields that it already has.

You still have a chance to make things right, but you must act quickly to
approve a community farm on the Busa Land.

At the same time, I ask that you take action right away to decide to limit any
housing there to four units maximum.  I support housing on this site, but only
if it is thoughtfully planned to allow for a viable, visible farm.  I was
seriously disappointed that you chose to dismiss the idea of a mixed-use,
integrated, and more densely solution for housing at the site.  Your recent
decision to vote in favor of putting affordable housing along Lowell
Street--without any stipulation regarding a limit of scale and scope--is
especially troubling.

One of the purposes behind preserving historical landscapes such as the Busa
farm is so that all can enjoy them.  Although the planning model for Lexington
in the recent past seems to be to site construction along frontage and block
views of open space, I urge you to consider an alternative approach in this
case--and in the future.  The view of open space makes it accessible to the
maximum number of individuals.  Even people not visiting the farm would be
able to obtain pleasure and a sense of place from it.  To put housing along
the roadside at this location is to create a new kind of exclusivity, and to
undermine one of the major reasons for preserving open space in the first
place.

Would your board look favorably if the owners of Wilson Farm decided to put
housing--or any built structures--along Pleasant Street, blocking the view of
the farm for all to enjoy?  I think not.  It is a gateway to our town, just
like the southern end of Lowell Street at the Arlington border. Then why would
town leaders decide to block this view on land that the community owns?

Please wake up and embrace this progressive possibility for Lexington.  For
the sake of our ancestors and future generations, make the right choice.  Take
the high road and take credit!  Please vote in favor a community farm so that
Lexington residents can create something beautiful for which we can all be
proud.  And please minimize housing on the site so that we all may behold its
splendor.

Thank you for your serious consideration.

Sincerely,

Carolyn M. Goldstein
