date: 03/14/2012
-
title: Kristen Reed
-
content:
Dear Lexington Selectmen,

I grew up in Lexington and attended the Lexington Public Schools K-12. Five
years ago my husband and I chose to move back here with our own children. I
have benefitted from this town¹s dedication to education and so have my
children. Please continue to honor that dedication to education by
dedicating at least 5 acres of tillable land to a community farm on the Busa
Farm land. I worked on the education section of the LexFarm proposal to the
BLUPC and know that at least 5 acres of farmland is crucial to ensuring the
full range of education programs included that proposal. This requires
limiting the affordable housing to at most four units.

Other LexFarm members and I have reached out to community farms in our area,
educators in Lexington, and Farm-based education associations to develop
ideas for education that could be successful on a Lexington Community Farm.

These ideas include programs for people of all ages (in brief):
·     Weekly story and explore the farm programs for preschoolers
·     Hands-on learning programs for school-aged children
·     Internships and community service opportunities for older students
·     Adult workshops on organic gardening, preserving and canning food,
sustainable landscape design, among many others
·     A historic farming exhibit that would highlight Colonial and Native
American farming practices compared to modern practices.

As you formally designate how the land will be used in the future, keep in
mind that the full breadth of education programs can only be incorporated if
there is enough land on the farm to offer these programs. For example, a
farm that is significantly smaller than 5 acres it would be challenging if
not impossible to host a grade-level field trip (60 or more students) from
any of the Lexington elementary schools. Ideally, there would be a separate
area dedicated to education that would include a learning and demonstration
garden for our community to enjoy.

Please see below for a list of examples of education programs that a
Lexington Community Farm could offer.

Thank you,
Kristen Reed
15 Westminster Ave
Lexington

Examples of Pre-School Programs:
The 1.5 hour programs would run at least once a week. Fee of $10-12/per
family per session would cover the cost (LCF could subsidize cost with farm
production).  Minimum of 4 families needed to run the program and cover
costs.
1.     Read story about farmer¹s tools, explore farmer¹s tools, make your
own simple tool
2.     Read potato story and plant potatoes, decorate your own potato
3.     Read pumpkin book and plant pumpkin seeds, make your own paper
pumpkin
4.     Read book about ducks, explore ducks¹ habitat at the Reservoir,
5.     Read bug book, take a bug walk, design and make your own paper bug
6.     Make a solar pizza box, make s¹mores, eat them

Examples of Field Trips for School-Age Children[1]:
2-3 hour programs with fees approximately $7 per child.

Close to the Ground: Eating for Your Health Grades K-5
Curriculum Connections:
MASS DOE Nutritional Frameworks:
- Identify the key nutrients in food that support healthy body systems and
recognize that the amount of food needed changes as the body grows
- Use the USDA Food Guide Pyramid and its three major concepts of balance,
variety, and moderation to plan healthy meals and snacks
- Identify the connection between food served in the home and regional food
production
Program Format:
- An indoor experience including reading a book and identifying a variety of
foods needed for a healthy daily energy. Students will learn about the new
food pyramid and identify foods on the Farm related to the pyramid
categories.
- An outdoor experience in the gardens harvesting and tasting food on the
farm. Students will discuss and participate in activities to learn the
meaning of terms related to food choices that are common but perhaps
misunderstood, such as processed food and whole food. Students will learn
how foods grow with sun, air, water, & soil and become fuel for their
bodies.

Soil & Plants: Characteristics of a Living System Grades 3-5
Curriculum Connections:
MASS DOE:  3-5 Science - Biology:
- Identify structures in plants (leaves, roots, flowers, stem, bark, wood)
that are responsible for food production, support, water transportation,
reproduction, growth, and protection
- Recognize plant behaviors response to light, gravity, seasonal changes
etc.
- Describe how energy derived from the sun is used by plants to produce
sugars (photosynthesis) and is transferred within a food chain from
producers to consumers to decomposers.
Program Format:
Focus on the characteristics of a plant. Beginning with a vegetable plant in
our gardens, students cooperate to identify plant parts and system
functions. The class covers the processes plants use to eat and drink,
seasonal changes, and how their botanical systems function. Students also
learn the basics of plant identification.

Examples of Out-of-School Learning Programs for Children
Farmer¹s Helpers Program  (Age 7-13)
Approximately $10/per student for 1.5 hour session.
Help start vegetable seedlings, transplant and prepare garden beds, harvest
vegetables, help maintain farm and farm equipment.  Depending on the work to
be done and time of year sessions would include learning about the ecology,
healthy eating, farming practices,  soil, water, insect control, plant
propagation, cultivation, and plant growth,

Examples of Adult Learning Programs:
Fees for these programs are approximate $20 per hour of instruction time.
1.     Adaptive Gardening (how to use adaptive gardening tools)
2.     Harvest hops and make beer
3.     Harvest corn and grind for corn bread
4.     Harvest and preserve
5.     Culinary and medicinal herb workshop
6.     Compositing and soil fertility
7.     Bird watching
8.     Organic Gardening
9.     Fruit trees for your backyard
10.  Starting your own garden
11.  Farm tour
12.  Historical Farming
13. Preserving and Canning Food
14. Jam and Jelly Making
15. Backyard Chickens
16. Ecological Lawn Care
17. Sustainable Landscape Design
18. Edible Wild Plants walk

Community Work Days (April-November)
One day a month from 9am-1:00pm
The Farm Manager and/or Volunteer Stewards will give an overview of the work
to be done that day on the farm.  Then the volunteers will split up into
groups (by age and experience) to complete the work. The farmer and steward
will work to ensure that there is appropriate work for people ages
3-seniors. Children need to be accompanied by an adult.  Volunteers will
picnic together at the end of the work period.  In subsequent years,
additional community work days will be offered as the volunteer base
increases.

Please see the following websites for additional examples:

Natick Community Organic Farm:
http://www.natickfarm.org/Pages/Programs_Overview.html

Weston¹s Land¹s Sake Farm:
http://www.landssake.org/education

[1] From Natick Community Organic Farm
http://www.natickfarm.org/Pages/School_Programs/Elementary_Main.html
