date: 03/13/2012
-
title: Beth Murnaghan
-
content:
Dear Town Meeting Members,

I am a resident of precinct 4.  I wanted to comment upon the message that Albert Zabin made on this list serve.  Like him I enthusiastically support a community farm on the Busa land.  He wrote about the value of diversity for those who had young children when moderate income housing in Lexington was first being discussed many years ago and about the overwhelming support then for affordable housing.

I have young children and I want to make sure that town meeting members understand that just as there was overwhelming support for affordable housing when it was first being discussed years ago there is overwhelming support for community farming now.

I spent a good part of  the day yesterday reading emails that Lexington residents had written to the Board of Selectmen between May 3 and September 13, 2011.  These emails are on the Selectmen's web page under the Busa Land Use discussion.  An overwhelming majority expressed their clear support for a community farm on the Busa land.  And by overwhelming this is what I read:  One hundred and twenty three individuals (myself included) or couples/families wrote in strong support for a community farm on the Busa land (seven people wrote in twice but I counted their opinion once).  Five letters favored either affordable housing or a playing field and three were more focused on the process or on details they wanted to convey to the selectmen.  My eyes were a bit bleary and it is possible that I am off by a letter or two but that would not change the overall message that townspeople were sending to the selectmen.  Based on comments made during the selectmen's recent meetings there are newer emails that have not yet been added to this list.

Ordinary citizens have been speaking up, signing petitions, writing letters and making phone calls for almost three years because they recognize the unique and wonderful opportunity within grasp of our town.  My hope is that elected officials understand that the wide breadth and depth of support for a community farm is the voice of a new generation.  Mr. Zabin's desire for diversity in our community when he was the parent of young children can be likened to my desire for fresh and local food sources for my children, along with the education about where their food comes from.

Those of us writing in may not be familiar with the ins and outs of town committees and government, but nonetheless, we as citizens and taxpayers of Lexington deserve to be heard.  Affordable housing had its visionaries and supporters and the town listened.  Now it is time for the Selectmen and all elected officials to turn their attention to today's needs and hopes for our community as a whole-- for old and young alike.

Beth Murnaghan
34 Wachusett Drive
